Right now, as you're listening, your brain is juggling a lot—maybe
emails are popping up, people are talking nearby, or you’re dealing
with physical distractions like being too hot, cold, or uncomfortable.
You might also have a hundred thoughts racing through your mind.
Even if you’re used to it, your brain is working
hard to process all that information.
To keep up, it uses cognitive or mental shortcuts to focus on what
seems important and make quick decisions.
This helps you avoid feeling overwhelmed.
But sometimes, those shortcuts can be wrong or lazy—causing you to
fall into the same emotional patterns over and over.
These patterns are often triggered by certain situations or
people—like being late, speaking in public, or interacting with
someone who makes you feel unsure or frustrated.
Emotional triggers can lead to negative thoughts and unhelpful
reactions, all happening in an instant.
Take a moment to reflect.
Think about challenges you’ve faced over the last six months.
Do the same thoughts or feelings keep showing up?
Can you spot any patterns?
Now dig a little deeper.
How have those emotions or thought patterns affected how you react?
Maybe you shut down, get angry, feel stressed, or become defiant.
Whatever your reaction, you probably know it’s not
always the most helpful.
Recognizing these emotional triggers is key to building
self-awareness—and that’s the first step toward managing your mindset
and responding in a more intentional way.